Sources/TimecodeKit/Documentation.docc/TimecodeKit-2-Migration-Guide.md, before:

# TimecodeKit 2 Migration Guide

API changes from TimecodeKit version 1 to version 2.

This guide is designed to assist in migrating projects currently using TimecodeKit 1.x to version 2.x. While not exhaustive, this guide covers the major API and workflow changes. 

## Time Value Types

In order to simplify initialization API and make time value types more easily discoverable, time values are now passed in as static wrappers to Timecode inits.

![Timecode init](timecode-init.png)

For example:

```swift
// 1.x API
Timecode("01:00:00:00", at: ._24)
// 2.x API
Timecode(.string("01:00:00:00"), at: .fps24)
```

Full list of corresponding time value enum cases:

| 1.x API                                                   | 2.x API                                                      |
| --------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `Timecode(TCC(), at: ._24)`                               | `Timecode(.zero, at: .fps24)`                                |
| `Timecode(TCC(h: 1, m: 0, s: 0, f: 0), at: ._24)`         | `Timecode(.components(h: 1, m: 0, s: 0, f: 0), at: .fps24)`  |
| `Timecode(.frames(1234), at: ._24)`                       | `Timecode(.frames(1234), at: .fps24)`                        |
| `Timecode(.combined(frames: 123.5), at: ._24)`            | `Timecode(.frames(123.5), at: .fps24)`                       |
| `Timecode(.split(frames: 123, subFrames: 50), at: ._24)`  | `Timecode(.frames(123, subFrames: 50), at: .fps24)`          |
| `Timecode(.splitUnitInterval(frames: 123, subFramesUnitInterval: 0.5), at: ._24)` | `Timecode(.frames(123, subFramesUnitInterval: 0.5), at: .fps24)` |
| `Timecode("01:00:00:00", at: ._24)`                       | `Timecode(.string("01:00:00:00"), at: .fps24)`               |
| `Timecode(realTime: 123.0, at: ._24)`                     | `Timecode(.realTime(seconds: 123.0), at: .fps24)`            |
| `Timecode(samples: 123.0, sampleRate: 48000, at: ._24)`   | `Timecode(.samples(123.0, sampleRate: 48000), at: .fps24)`   |
| `Timecode(startOf: AVAsset(), at: ._24)`                  | `Timecode(.avAsset(AVAsset(), .start), at: .fps24)`          |
| `Timecode(durationOf: AVAsset(), at: ._24)`               | `Timecode(.avAsset(AVAsset(), .duration), at: .fps24)`       |
| `Timecode(endOf: AVAsset(), at: ._24)`                    | `Timecode(.avAsset(AVAsset(), .end), at: .fps24)`            |
| `Timecode(CMTime(), at: ._24)`                            | `Timecode(.cmTime(CMTime()), at: .fps24)`                    |
| `Timecode(Fraction(60, 1), at: ._24)`                     | `Timecode(.rational(60, 1), at: .fps24)`                     |
| `Timecode(FeetAndFrames(feet: 60, frames: 10), at: ._24)` | `Timecode(.feetAndFrames(feet: 60, frames: 10), at: .fps24)` |
| `Timecode(flattening: TimecodeInterval)`                  | `Timecode(.interval(flattening: TimecodeInterval)`           |

## Timecode Validation

Time value validation has changed from parameter labels to a new `by:` parameter.

```swift
// "exactly" was denoted by an empty parameter label, and is a throwing init
// 1.x API
try Timecode("01:00:00:00", at: ._24)
// 2.x API
try Timecode(.string("01:00:00:00"), at: .fps24)

// "clamping"
// 1.x API
Timecode(clamping: "01:00:00:00", at: ._24)
// 2.x API
Timecode(.string("01:00:00:00"), at: .fps24, by: .clamping)

// "wrapping"
// 1.x API
Timecode(wrapping: "01:00:00:00", at: ._24)
// 2.x API
Timecode(.string("01:00:00:00"), at: .fps24, by: .wrapping)

// "rawValues"
// 1.x API
Timecode(rawValues: "01:00:00:00", at: ._24)
// 2.x API
Timecode(.string("01:00:00:00"), at: .fps24, by: .allowingInvalid)
```

## Timecode String Value

- The `stringValue` property is now the ``Timecode/stringValue(format:)`` method.
- The Timecode struct no longer stores string formatting properties. Instead, formatting options are now optionally passed when calling ``Timecode/stringValue(format:)``.

```swift
// 1.x API
let timecode = try Timecode(TCC(h: 1, m: 0, s: 0, f: 0, sf: 50), at: ._24)
timecode.stringValue // "01:00:00:00"
timecode.stringFormat = [.showSubFrames]
timecode.stringValue // "01:00:00:00.50"
// 2.x API
let timecode = try Timecode(.components(h: 1, m: 0, s: 0, f: 0, sf: 50), at: .fps24)
timecode.stringValue() // "01:00:00:00"
timecode.stringValue(format: [.showSubFrames]) // "01:00:00:00.50"
```

- The `stringValueFileNameCompatible` property has been removed and is now a format option.

```swift
timecode.stringValue(format: [.filenameCompatible])
```

## Timecode Properties

As in TimecodeKit 1.x, it is still possible to pass properties directly to the initializer as parameters:

```swift
let timecode = try Timecode(
    .components(h: 1, m: 0, s: 0, f: 0), 
    at: .fps24,
    base: .max80SubFrames,
    limit: .max24Hours
)
```

Timecode metadata can now also be constructed and passed using a new ``Timecode/Properties-swift.struct`` struct. It contains:

- `frameRate`
- `subFramesBase`
- `upperLimit`

```swift
// construct a Timecode.Properties instance
// and pass it to a new Timecode instance
let properties = Timecode.Properties(
    rate: .fps24,
    base: .max80SubFrames,
    limit: .max24Hours
)
let timecode = Timecode(
    .components(h: 1, m: 0, s: 0, f: 0),
    using: properties
)

// it can also be fetched using the `properties` property and used to
// construct a new Timecode with the same properties
let newTimecode = Timecode(
    .components(h: 2, m: 0, s: 0, f: 0),
    using: timecode.properties
)
```

## Set Timecode on an Existing Timecode Instance

Previous `Timecode` `setTimecode()` methods have been refactored to use a more consistent `set()` methods, with overloads similar to the new `Timecode` initializers.
This allows set methods to take the same value sources and validation rules by using the same API as the initializers.

For example:

```swift
var timecode = Timecode(.zero, at: .fps24)
try timecode.set(.realTime(seconds: 123.0))
timecode.set(.frames(1234), by: .wrapping)
```

For value type reference, see the [Time Value Types](#Time-Value-Types) section above.

For timecode validation rules reference, see the [Timecode Validation](#Timecode-Validation) section above.

## Functional Shorthand

The time value category method `toTimecode(...)` has been renamed to `timecode(...)`.

For example:

```swift
// 1.x API
try "01:00:00:00".toTimecode(at: ._24)
// 2.x API
try "01:00:00:00".timecode(at: .fps24)
```

## Enum Case Respellings

Some enum cases have been renamed to conform to lowerCamelCase and replace underscore prefixes.

- ``TimecodeFrameRate`` cases have been renamed.
  - `._24` is now `.fps24` and so on
- ``VideoFrameRate`` cases have been renamed.
  - `._24p` is now `.fps24p` and so on
- ``Timecode/UpperLimit-swift.enum`` cases have been renamed.
  - `._24hours` is now `.max24Hours`
  - `._100days` is now `.max100Days`
- ``Timecode/SubFramesBase-swift.enum`` cases have been renamed.
  - `._80SubFrames` is now `.max80SubFrames`
  - `._100SubFrames` is now `.max100SubFrames`
- ``TimecodeFrameRate/CompatibleGroup-swift.enum`` cases have been renamed.
  - `.NTSC` is now `.ntscColor`
  - `.NTSC_drop` is now `.ntscDrop`
  - `.ATSC` is now `.whole`
  - `.ATSC_drop` is now `.ntscColorWallTime`

Commit message:

Fixed `adding()`/`subtracting()`. Removed time value category methods: `timecode(at:base:limit:)` and `timecode(using:)`

Sources/TimecodeKit/Documentation.docc/TimecodeKit-2-Migration-Guide.md, after:

# TimecodeKit 2 Migration Guide

API changes from TimecodeKit version 1 to version 2.

This guide is designed to assist in migrating projects currently using TimecodeKit 1.x to version 2.x. While not exhaustive, this guide covers the major API and workflow changes. 

## Time Value Types

In order to simplify initialization API and make time value types more easily discoverable, time values are now passed in as static wrappers to Timecode inits.

![Timecode init](timecode-init.png)

For example:

```swift
// 1.x API
Timecode("01:00:00:00", at: ._24)
// 2.x API
Timecode(.string("01:00:00:00"), at: .fps24)
```

Full list of corresponding time value enum cases:

| 1.x API                                                   | 2.x API                                                      |
| --------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `Timecode(TCC(), at: ._24)`                               | `Timecode(.zero, at: .fps24)`                                |
| `Timecode(TCC(h: 1, m: 0, s: 0, f: 0), at: ._24)`         | `Timecode(.components(h: 1, m: 0, s: 0, f: 0), at: .fps24)`  |
| `Timecode(.frames(1234), at: ._24)`                       | `Timecode(.frames(1234), at: .fps24)`                        |
| `Timecode(.combined(frames: 123.5), at: ._24)`            | `Timecode(.frames(123.5), at: .fps24)`                       |
| `Timecode(.split(frames: 123, subFrames: 50), at: ._24)`  | `Timecode(.frames(123, subFrames: 50), at: .fps24)`          |
| `Timecode(.splitUnitInterval(frames: 123, subFramesUnitInterval: 0.5), at: ._24)` | `Timecode(.frames(123, subFramesUnitInterval: 0.5), at: .fps24)` |
| `Timecode("01:00:00:00", at: ._24)`                       | `Timecode(.string("01:00:00:00"), at: .fps24)`               |
| `Timecode(realTime: 123.0, at: ._24)`                     | `Timecode(.realTime(seconds: 123.0), at: .fps24)`            |
| `Timecode(samples: 123.0, sampleRate: 48000, at: ._24)`   | `Timecode(.samples(123.0, sampleRate: 48000), at: .fps24)`   |
| `Timecode(startOf: AVAsset(), at: ._24)`                  | `Timecode(.avAsset(AVAsset(), .start), at: .fps24)`          |
| `Timecode(durationOf: AVAsset(), at: ._24)`               | `Timecode(.avAsset(AVAsset(), .duration), at: .fps24)`       |
| `Timecode(endOf: AVAsset(), at: ._24)`                    | `Timecode(.avAsset(AVAsset(), .end), at: .fps24)`            |
| `Timecode(CMTime(), at: ._24)`                            | `Timecode(.cmTime(CMTime()), at: .fps24)`                    |
| `Timecode(Fraction(60, 1), at: ._24)`                     | `Timecode(.rational(60, 1), at: .fps24)`                     |
| `Timecode(FeetAndFrames(feet: 60, frames: 10), at: ._24)` | `Timecode(.feetAndFrames(feet: 60, frames: 10), at: .fps24)` |
| `Timecode(flattening: TimecodeInterval)`                  | `Timecode(.interval(flattening: TimecodeInterval)`           |

## Timecode Validation

Time value validation has changed from parameter labels to a new `by:` parameter.

```swift
// "exactly" was denoted by an empty parameter label, and is a throwing init
// 1.x API
try Timecode("01:00:00:00", at: ._24)
// 2.x API
try Timecode(.string("01:00:00:00"), at: .fps24)

// "clamping"
// 1.x API
Timecode(clamping: "01:00:00:00", at: ._24)
// 2.x API
Timecode(.string("01:00:00:00"), at: .fps24, by: .clamping)

// "wrapping"
// 1.x API
Timecode(wrapping: "01:00:00:00", at: ._24)
// 2.x API
Timecode(.string("01:00:00:00"), at: .fps24, by: .wrapping)

// "rawValues"
// 1.x API
Timecode(rawValues: "01:00:00:00", at: ._24)
// 2.x API
Timecode(.string("01:00:00:00"), at: .fps24, by: .allowingInvalid)
```

## Timecode String Value

- The `stringValue` property is now the ``Timecode/stringValue(format:)`` method.
- The Timecode struct no longer stores string formatting properties. Instead, formatting options are now optionally passed when calling ``Timecode/stringValue(format:)``.

```swift
// 1.x API
let timecode = try Timecode(TCC(h: 1, m: 0, s: 0, f: 0, sf: 50), at: ._24)
timecode.stringValue // "01:00:00:00"
timecode.stringFormat = [.showSubFrames]
timecode.stringValue // "01:00:00:00.50"
// 2.x API
let timecode = try Timecode(.components(h: 1, m: 0, s: 0, f: 0, sf: 50), at: .fps24)
timecode.stringValue() // "01:00:00:00"
timecode.stringValue(format: [.showSubFrames]) // "01:00:00:00.50"
```

- The `stringValueFileNameCompatible` property has been removed and is now a format option.

```swift
timecode.stringValue(format: [.filenameCompatible])
```

## Timecode Properties

As in TimecodeKit 1.x, it is still possible to pass properties directly to the initializer as parameters:

```swift
let timecode = try Timecode(
    .components(h: 1, m: 0, s: 0, f: 0), 
    at: .fps24,
    base: .max80SubFrames,
    limit: .max24Hours
)
```

Timecode metadata can now also be constructed and passed using a new ``Timecode/Properties-swift.struct`` struct. It contains:

- `frameRate`
- `subFramesBase`
- `upperLimit`

```swift
// construct a Timecode.Properties instance
// and pass it to a new Timecode instance
let properties = Timecode.Properties(
    rate: .fps24,
    base: .max80SubFrames,
    limit: .max24Hours
)
let timecode = Timecode(
    .components(h: 1, m: 0, s: 0, f: 0),
    using: properties
)

// it can also be fetched using the `properties` property and used to
// construct a new Timecode with the same properties
let newTimecode = Timecode(
    .components(h: 2, m: 0, s: 0, f: 0),
    using: timecode.properties
)
```

## Set Timecode on an Existing Timecode Instance

Previous `Timecode` `setTimecode()` methods have been refactored to use a more consistent `set()` methods, with overloads similar to the new `Timecode` initializers.
This allows set methods to take the same value sources and validation rules by using the same API as the initializers.

For example:

```swift
var timecode = Timecode(.zero, at: .fps24)
try timecode.set(.realTime(seconds: 123.0))
timecode.set(.frames(1234), by: .wrapping)
```

For value type reference, see the [Time Value Types](#Time-Value-Types) section above.

For timecode validation rules reference, see the [Timecode Validation](#Timecode-Validation) section above.

## Removal Functional Shorthand

For technical reasons and to avoid ambiguity for time value types that are common types (such as TimeInterval aka Double),
the `toTimecode(...)` category methods have been removed.

For example:

```swift
// 1.x API
try "01:00:00:00".toTimecode(at: ._24)
// 2.x API
// (removed)
```

## Enum Case Respellings

Some enum cases have been renamed to conform to lowerCamelCase and replace underscore prefixes.

- ``TimecodeFrameRate`` cases have been renamed.
  - `._24` is now `.fps24` and so on
- ``VideoFrameRate`` cases have been renamed.
  - `._24p` is now `.fps24p` and so on
- ``Timecode/UpperLimit-swift.enum`` cases have been renamed.
  - `._24hours` is now `.max24Hours`
  - `._100days` is now `.max100Days`
- ``Timecode/SubFramesBase-swift.enum`` cases have been renamed.
  - `._80SubFrames` is now `.max80SubFrames`
  - `._100SubFrames` is now `.max100SubFrames`
- ``TimecodeFrameRate/CompatibleGroup-swift.enum`` cases have been renamed.
  - `.NTSC` is now `.ntscColor`
  - `.NTSC_drop` is now `.ntscDrop`
  - `.ATSC` is now `.whole`
  - `.ATSC_drop` is now `.ntscColorWallTime`
